---
title: XAML Basics
module: 13
jotted: true
---

# XAML Basics

XAML which stands for **eXtensible Application Markup Language** is an XML based language.  XML which is similar to HTML except the tags give context to what they are.  So there are some symantics along with the syntax.

What are the advantages and disadvantages of using XAML.  As described by Microsoft, they are listed below.

XAML has several advantages over equivalent code:

* XAML is often more succinct and readable than equivalent code.
* The parent-child hierarchy inherent in XML allows XAML to mimic with greater visual clarity the * parent-child hierarchy of user-interface objects.
* XAML can be easily hand-written by programmers, but also lends itself to be toolable and generated by visual design tools.

There are also disadvantages, mostly related to limitations that are intrinsic to markup languages:

* XAML cannot contain code. All event handlers must be defined in a code file.
* XAML cannot contain loops for repetitive processing. (However, several Xamarin.Forms visual objects—most notably ListView —can generate multiple children based on the objects in its ItemsSource collection.)
* XAML cannot contain conditional processing (However, a data-binding can reference a code-based binding converter that effectively allows some conditional processing.)
* XAML generally cannot instantiate classes that do not define a parameterless constructor. (However, there is sometimes a way around this restriction.)
* XAML generally cannot call methods. (Again, this restriction can sometimes be overcome.)

Here is our first example

```html
<Button Text="Click Me" Clicked="Button_Clicked" />
```

Put this into the XAML file. Add the code below in the .cs file.

```csharp
int count = 0;
void Button_Clicked(object sender, System.EventArgs e)
{
    count++;
    ((Button)sender).Text = $"You clicked {count} times.";
}
```

Once you get this installed, click on the Run button to view it in the emulator.